[docs] contributing (#45465)
huggingface/transformers: CONTRIBUTING.md

limitations under the License.
-->

> # Contribute to Transformers

Reviewer: We can keep the 🤗 imo :D

Author: 🤗

</details>

## Welcome to the 🤗 Transformers community!

Everyone is welcome to contribute, and we value everybody's contribution. Code
contributions are not the only way to help the community. Answering questions, helping
others, and improving the documentation are also immensely valuable.

It also helps us if you spread the word! Reference the library in blog posts
about the awesome projects it made possible, shout out on Twitter every time it has
helped you, or simply ⭐️ the repository to say thank you.

However you choose to contribute, please be mindful and respect our

> [code of conduct](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Reviewer: Imo, I would keep this in some shape or form: It's more for engagement but still feels valuable

**This guide was heavily inspired by the awesome [scikit-learn guide to contributing](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).**

> ## Ways to contribute

Reviewer: Same here would keep and maybe tightly reference the agentic stuff we now have

Reviewer: Ah ok it is a bit below but would still keep the TOC like structure right below

> All contributions are equally valuable to the community. 🥰
However you choose to contribute, please be mindful and respect our [code of conduct](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## Fixing outstanding issues
This guide was heavily inspired by the [scikit-learn guide to contributing](https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

If you notice an issue with the existing code and have a fix in mind, feel free to [start contributing](#create-a-pull-request) and open a Pull Request!

## Submitting a bug-related issue or feature request

Do your best to follow these guidelines when submitting a bug-related issue or a feature
request. It will make it easier for us to come back to you quickly and with good
feedback.

### Did you find a bug?

The 🤗 Transformers library is robust and reliable thanks to users who report the problems they encounter.

Before you report an issue, we would really appreciate it if you could **make sure the bug was not

> already reported** (use the search bar on GitHub under Issues). Your issue should also be related to bugs in the library itself, and not your code. If you're unsure whether the bug is in your code or the library, please ask in the [forum](https://discuss.huggingface.co/) or on our [discord](https://discord.com/invite/hugging-face-879548962464493619) first. This helps us respond quicker to fixing issues related to the library versus general questions.

Reviewer: Should we really remove all mentions of the forum and discord? Feels like it should stay somewhere

> Don't push branches directly to `huggingface/transformers`. Fork [Transformers](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers) with the **Fork** button on GitHub to get a copy under your account, then clone it locally.

Reviewer 2: they probably don't have the rights for this anyways.

> git remote add upstream https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.git

Reviewer: Maybe add git remove -v to show exemplary the output - origin == fork, upstream == original one

> git switch -c a-descriptive-name-for-my-branch

Reviewer: maybe for beginners the ui is also nice to sync

> Install the library in editable mode. Use `[torch,testing]` for model contributions (includes PyTorch, pytest, and style tools) or `[quality]` for docs and small fixes (style tools only).

Reviewer: I feel like we should maybe nudge towards dev? It feels pretty stable these days + quality will be needed pretty much all the time to fix style etc

You will need basic `git` proficiency to contribute to
🤗 Transformers. While `git` is not the easiest tool to use, it has the greatest
manual. Type `git --help` in a shell and enjoy! If you prefer books, [Pro
Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2) is a very good reference.

You'll need **[Python 3.9](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/blob/main/setup.py#L449)** or above to contribute to 🤗 Transformers. Follow the steps below to start contributing:

1. Fork the [repository](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers) by
   clicking on the **[Fork](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/fork)** button on the repository's page. This creates a copy of the code
   under your GitHub user account.

2. Clone your fork to your local disk, and add the base repository as a remote:

   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:<your Github handle>/transformers.git
   cd transformers
   git remote add upstream https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.git
   ```

3. Create a new branch to hold your development changes:

   ```bash
   git checkout -b a-descriptive-name-for-my-changes
   ```

   🚨 **Do not** work on the `main` branch!

> 4. Set up a development environment by running the following command in a virtual environment:

Reviewer: Maybe it does make sense to keep the listings style for the setup to have proper blocks

> ### Bug-related issue

Reviewer: Yea in general a first TOC would be nice
1. Setup
    1.1. Windows
2. Contributions
    2.1. Bugs
etc.

> 2. [Add vision processing components](docs/source/en/add_vision_processing_components.md) — add image processors and other vision-specific components if your model requires image inputs.

Reviewer: Imo should be somewhere more below because not any model will always have this

> 4. [Convert checkpoints](docs/source/en/modular_transformers.md#checkpoint-conversion) — write a conversion script to translate upstream weights into a Transformers-compatible format and upload to the Hub.

Reviewer: Imo, re weights should be deprecated and only done in special cases --> dynamic weight converter is in general the better way if possible.

Author: i'll remove this one to direct more focus on the dynamic weight converter

> 6. [Testing](docs/source/en/testing.md) — write and run model tests to verify correctness and keep the contribution maintainable.

Reviewer 2: Would add just that you can inherit from causal LM tester and the most important test are the integration tests.

> 8. [Pull request checks](docs/source/en/pr_checks.md) — understand the Hugging Face CI checks and how to run them locally before opening a PR.

Reviewer: Tightly bounded, maybe one suffices?

Author: the model structure rules one is probably more relevant so i'll keep that one, and it'll also address arthur's comment below

> 8. [Pull request checks](docs/source/en/pr_checks.md) — understand the Hugging Face CI checks and how to run them locally before opening a PR.

Reviewer 2: Not sure these are really up to date tho, and its changing

> There are four timelines for model additions depending on the model contributor and community demand for an architecture.

Reviewer 2: I feel like its missing the notes about "to add a model to the `transformers` familiy you need to make sure you isolate the difference between your model and the recent sota models. This is super helpful for our reviewers to understand what challenges this model brings, and what parts can be standardized.

Author: added in the `## Adding a new model` section above

> - Day-0 integration: ship the model in Transformers on release day. We optimize the architecture (quantization, FlashAttention, KV-cache, etc.), review early drafts, and tighten the docs before launch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Day-0 integration: make the model available in Transformers on release day with a new version release. We provide help to support the most important / core features like (quantization, FlashAttention, KV-cache, etc.), review early drafts and can also take care of the model implementation depending on timelines.
```

>   Popular Hub-first models often get integrated into Transformers later, which unlocks first-class docs, maintenance, and optimization. Hub-first is the lowest-friction way to add a model.

Reviewer 2: But it can be quite cumbersome as it may involve weight conversion and backward compatibility issues.
